---
layout: default
---
## Curriculum Vitae
Please find a copy of my CV [here]({{ site.url }}/CV.pdf).

## Publications List

### [Dark Energy Survey Year 3 results: simulation-based cosmological inference with wavelet harmonics, scattering transforms, and moments of weak lensing mass maps II. Cosmological results](https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.10881)

#### **Authors:** _M. Gatti, G. Campailla, N. Jeffrey, L. Whiteway, A. Porredon, J. Prat, J. Williamson, M. Raveri, B. Jain, V. Ajani, G. Giannini, M. Yamamoto, C. Zhou, J. Blazek, D. Anbajagane, S. Samuroff, T. Kacprzak, A. Alarcon, A. Amon, K. Bechtol, M. Becker, G. Bernstein, A. Campos, C. Chang, R. Chen , et al. (77 additional authors not shown)_ 

##### Abstract: We present a simulation-based cosmological analysis using a combination of Gaussian and non-Gaussian statistics of the weak lensing mass (convergence) maps from the first three years (Y3) of the Dark Energy Survey (DES). We implement: 1) second and third moments; 2) wavelet phase harmonics; 3) the scattering transform. Our analysis is fully based on simulations, spans a space of seven νwCDM cosmological parameters, and forward models the most relevant sources of systematics inherent in the data: masks, noise variations, clustering of the sources, intrinsic alignments, and shear and redshift calibration. We implement a neural network compression of the summary statistics, and we estimate the parameter posteriors using a simulation-based inference approach. Including and combining different non-Gaussian statistics is a powerful tool that strongly improves constraints over Gaussian statistics (in our case, the second moments); in particular, the Figure of Merit FoM (S8,Ωm) is improved by 70 percent (ΛCDM) and 90 percent (wCDM). When all the summary statistics are combined, we achieve a 2 percent constraint on the amplitude of fluctuations parameter S8, obtaining S8=0.794±0.017 (ΛCDM) and S8=0.817±0.021 (wCDM). The constraints from different statistics are shown to be internally consistent (with a p-value>0.1 for all combinations of statistics examined). We compare our results to other weak lensing results from the DES Y3 data, finding good consistency; we also compare with results from external datasets, such as Planck constraints from the Cosmic Microwave Background, finding statistical agreement, with discrepancies no greater than <2.2σ. 

### [Dark Energy Survey Year 3 results: likelihood-free, simulation-based wCDM inference with neural compression of weak-lensing map statistics](https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02314)

#### **Authors:** N. Jeffrey, L. Whiteway, M. Gatti, J. Williamson, J. Alsing, A. Porredon, J. Prat, C. Doux, B. Jain, C. Chang, T. -Y. Cheng, T. Kacprzak, P. Lemos, A. Alarcon, A. Amon, K. Bechtol, M. R. Becker, G. M. Bernstein, A. Campos, A. Carnero Rosell, R. Chen, A. Choi, J. DeRose, A. Drlica-Wagner, K. Eckert , et al. (66 additional authors not shown)

##### Abstract: We present simulation-based cosmological wCDM inference using Dark Energy Survey Year 3 weak-lensing maps, via neural data compression of weak-lensing map summary statistics: power spectra, peak counts, and direct map-level compression/inference with convolutional neural networks (CNN). Using simulation-based inference, also known as likelihood-free or implicit inference, we use forward-modelled mock data to estimate posterior probability distributions of unknown parameters. This approach allows all statistical assumptions and uncertainties to be propagated through the forward-modelled mock data; these include sky masks, non-Gaussian shape noise, shape measurement bias, source galaxy clustering, photometric redshift uncertainty, intrinsic galaxy alignments, non-Gaussian density fields, neutrinos, and non-linear summary statistics. We include a series of tests to validate our inference results. This paper also describes the Gower Street simulation suite: 791 full-sky PKDGRAV dark matter simulations, with cosmological model parameters sampled with a mixed active-learning strategy, from which we construct over 3000 mock DES lensing data sets. For wCDM inference, for which we allow −1<w<−13, our most constraining result uses power spectra combined with map-level (CNN) inference. Using gravitational lensing data only, this map-level combination gives Ωm=0.283, S8=0.8047, and w < −0.80 (with a 68 per cent credible interval); compared to the power spectrum inference, this is more than a factor of two improvement in dark energy parameter (ΩDE,w) precision

### [Dark Energy Survey Year 3 results: simulation-based cosmological inference with wavelet harmonics, scattering transforms, and moments of weak lensing mass maps I: validation on simulations](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17557)

#### **Authors:**  M. Gatti, N. Jeffrey, L. Whiteway, J. Williamson, B. Jain, V. Ajani, D. Anbajagane, G. Giannini, C. Zhou, A. Porredon, J. Prat, M. Yamamoto, J. Blazek, T. Kacprzak, S. Samuroff, A. Alarcon, A. Amon, K. Bechtol, M. Becker, G. Bernstein, A. Campos, C. Chang, R. Chen, A. Choi, C. Davis , et al. (76 additional authors not shown)

##### Abstract Beyond-two-point statistics contain additional information on cosmological as well as astrophysical and observational (systematics) parameters. In this methodology paper we provide an end-to-end simulation-based analysis of a set of Gaussian and non-Gaussian weak lensing statistics using detailed mock catalogues of the Dark Energy Survey. We implement: 1) second and third moments; 2) wavelet phase harmonics (WPH); 3) the scattering transform (ST). Our analysis is fully based on simulations, it spans a space of seven νwCDM cosmological parameters, and it forward models the most relevant sources of systematics of the data (masks, noise variations, clustering of the sources, intrinsic alignments, and shear and redshift calibration). We implement a neural network compression of the summary statistics, and we estimate the parameter posteriors using a likelihood-free-inference approach. We validate the pipeline extensively, and we find that WPH exhibits the strongest performance when combined with second moments, followed by ST. and then by third moments. The combination of all the different statistics further enhances constraints with respect to second moments, up to 25 per cent, 15 per cent, and 90 per cent for S8, Ωm, and the Figure-Of-Merit FoM S8,Ωm, respectively. We further find that non-Gaussian statistics improve constraints on w and on the amplitude of intrinsic alignment with respect to second moments constraints. The methodological advances presented here are suitable for application to Stage IV surveys from Euclid, Rubin-LSST, and Roman with additional validation on mock catalogues for each survey. In a companion paper we present an application to DES Year 3 data.

[back](./)
